---
layout: post
title:  By Any Other Name
kind: article
created_at: 2010-04-13
location: New York, NY
author: Ghost Writer
h1: On the internet, nobody knows you're a dog.
categories:
- example
- demo
- blog
- nanoc
---

h2. I want my name - even if it's not actually my name

Pretty much anywhere I regularly post online, I use the handle 'telemachus'. He's a character from _The Odyssey_. If you don't know who he is, that's ok, but you should probably read more. This post isn't about him though, and it's not about why I chose that particular name. It's about what happens when 'telemachus' isn't available. I hate not getting that name. I _need_ to be Telemachus. He's me; that's my name. I want it. I need it. I must have it.

Of course it doesn't work that way. On most websites and forums, users must have unique names. If I get unlucky and some other Greco-Roman geek got to Telemachus before me, I'm out of luck. When this happens, my first move is to check out the "other" Telemachus. If he is a frequent or well-known contributor, I give up and choose a different handle. However, what often happens is that the name is taken, but the holder of that name rarely posts, or - and this is very common - he hasn't logged into the forum in years. (In irc, by the way, you can often petition to have names released. If the name hasn't been used in some period of time - often as little as six months - you can claim the name for yourself. This recently caused [an ugly incident involving Bram Cohen](http://bramcohen.livejournal.com/72298.html), the creator of BitTorrent.) In that case, I look for a close variant.

First choice is simple capitalization. I feel slightly guilty about this, since it's almost certainly a designer error. (The software validating usernames should count 'telemachus' taken if 'Telemachus' is taken. It really is too confusing to have two users with names that close together. But sometimes people get this wrong.) I always try for 'telemachus' first - it's easier to type - but I'll take 'Telemachus' without complaint. This trick almost never works, but you never know.

Next, I'll try a spelling variant: 'telemachos' (and, of course, 'Telemachos'). The spelling 'Telemachus' is itself a Latin version of the original name. In Greek, the name is spelled with an omicron (&omicron;). So, although many people probably think I can't spell, 'telemachos' looks perfectly fine to me. This compromise works most of the time. But not always. When this spelling is _also_ already taken, then I have to try extreme measures.

My extreme measure of choice is the underscore. In many cases, you can do '\_telemachus' or 'telemachus\_'. These names are almost never taken, but some sites disallow the underscore as part of a name. Using an underscore has obvious cons: it looks odd & it's harder for other people to type correctly (say in searches or responses). I try to tell myself that '\_telemachus' looks sort of like the convention whereby private method names in Perl or Ruby begin with an underscore, but that really doesn't help. (Many people use numbers, but I think these look terrible: tel3machus, telemach0s)

One odd thing is that I can't fully say why I care so much. After a number of years, I have grown unreasonably attached to 'telemachus'. It's my name, and I want it. However, as the internet fills up, it has become more and more common for me to join a site too late. In those cases, I usually flail around and come up with a mediocre, unsatisfying solution.

h2. A new beginning

Recently I had this problem at Twitter. The Twitter name 'telemachus' is taken, and has been since 3:46 PM on September 12th, 2007. The holder of the account appears to have sent one tweet, twice within that same minute. He or she never tweeted again. (Despite that, the account has five followers. Go figure. Can you tell that I am taking this way too personally?) Once upon a time, Twitter would reap dormant or spam accounts if you asked nicely. However, at some point recently they changed their policy. They now politely write back explaining that they don't do that. You can't force a name to be released. I can understand their position. It's a hassle for them and technically there's no way to know that the dormant user might not come back tomorrow and tweet like mad for the rest of his life. They would have to create a policy and yada yada yada. All fair enough, but I wanted my damn name.

My initial approach was to create an account called '\_telemachus', but I was never really happy with this. (Obviously 'telemachos' is taken too. Damn.) Seeing @\_telemachus in retweets just looked stupid. I eventually deleted that account and stopped using Twitter. As petty as it is, the name was part of why I quit. Recently, I rejoined Twitter, and my current answer is decidedly odd, but at the moment I'm happy with it. The new account uses my real name (which I could get, luckily), but for the 'Name' portion of my Twitter profile, I entered 'Telemachus'. I'm not sure that this is literally a first, but it has to be rare: I used my actual name as an alias in order to be able to use my preferred nom de guerre.

h2. Why am I telling this story?

No reason really. I haven't written a post in some time, and I really thought I should. Also, and this is closer to a real reason, I wonder whether other people are this attached to handles. If they are, I wonder what lengths they go to to get the names they want. Are there some tricks I should know? Is there a support group? Inquiring minds want to know.
