*This was first posted on 03/20/2007 02:49:31*\

Time before lunch was spent on general development, exploring the
environment, helping everyone setting up svn so that they can get
updates from the repository, etc. Also several bugs were recognized,
some of which were fixed. We have started using the Sourceforge bug
tracker again for [bug
reports](http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=78108&atid=552170).

First presentation after lunch is Pascal Baltazar, presenting his
performance environment **Z**.

Z seems more customized to his own artistic use than Jamoma, but have
some really interesting implementations for spatialisation, with each
module having effect sends to two different reverbs, as well as a
dynamic system for amplitude panning to four selectable speakers.
Speaking for myself (Trond) I believe that the spatialisation was a
strongly integrated part of his performance last Saturday.

Z also have a very well developed system for mapping. This Pascal has
ported to Jamoma, although it remains to be updated for the new core of
version 0.4.

Next Antonio de Sousa Dias did a general presentation of [CICM - Centre
de researche Informatique et Création
Musicale](http://cicm.mshparisnord.org/). He then went on to present an
number of environments developed at CICM.

InstallaSon is a system for interactive audiovisual installations,
containing an editor and a manager.

KITTy is a package for external patches communication management in
Max/MSP. One of the ideas of KITTy, Kit d’Interfacage Tout Terrain, is
to remember the state of the environment immediately before it closed.
KITTy was presented at
[ICMC2005](http://www.icmc2005.org/index.php?selectedPage=119).

He then went on to demonstrate [IRIN by Carlos Caires. IRIN is
specifically made for work on microsound. IRIN will be presented in an
upcoming](http://homepage.oniduo.pt/carlos.caires/sw/sw@carloscaires_eng.html)[CMJ](http://mitpress2.mit.edu/e-journals/Computer-Music-Journal/)
paper.

In his presentation yesterday Tim Place quoted Manovich's claim that new
media are interfaces to databases. Antonio took a twist on this by
stating that for him, "a musical work would be the result of an
interface to a database".
