---
layout: post
title: Last Month in Jamoma - January 2010
kind: article
created_at: 2010-02-02
location: Montreal, Canada
author: Nils Peters
h1: Last Month in Jamoma - January 2010
categories:
- fft
- ios
- multicore
- minuit
- osc
- copperlan
- cuescript
---
Traditionally, January seems to be one of the most active months for Jamoma development. This year was no exception. Here are some highlights:

* Jamoma Foundation project extended to allow compiling for the iPhone/iPod/iPad.
* Jamoma DSP expanded through the addition of a new FFT Lib extension for spectral processing, based on the "Ooura library":http://www.kurims.kyoto-u.ac.jp/~ooura/.
* Jamoma DSP's Filter Lib optimization and clean-up work
* Jamoma Multicore was largely re-written to address limitations of the internal architecture as it had previously existed.
* Ruby language binding fleshed out and made to work doing live-coding DSP with Jamoma Multicore.
* Jamoma Modular saw a continuation of work on the NodeLib (for managing tree structures of modules, parameters, etc.). The Virage DeviceManager (a daemon that loads plug-ins) has now been integrated through a new Max external called jcom.deviceManager. This allows communication with Minuit, OSC, CopperLan and potentially more protocols by building dedicated plugins.
* Many other things have also been going. Not all of them can be listed, but some include: A UserLib module wrapping ol.autotalent~ (automatic pitch correction for MSP); jmod.cueManager/jcom.cuemanager improvements (cue moving, autofollow and comments features); website improvement; and new modules for motion capture retrieval and processing, including selecting models for marker placement and biomechanics, and GDIF implementation.
