---
layout: post
title: Build and Test in the Jamoma Core
h1: Build and Test in the Jamoma Core
kind: article
menu: blog
created_at: 2014-01-30
location: Florida USA
author: Nathan Wolek
categories:
- testing
- C++
- Xcode
- Ruby
- Core
---

In their book "The Pragmatic Programmer":http://pragprog.com/the-pragmatic-programmer, Hunt &amp; Thomas encourage readers to engage in &quot;ruthless testing&quot;. Their ideas are summarized by a three-part message: &quot;Test Early. Test Often. Test Automatically.&quot;

On the Jamoma team, we couldn't agree more. We have worked hard for several years to develop automatic tests at both the unit and integration levels, something that was first written about in an "SMC 2012 paper":http://jamoma.org/publications/attachments/smc2012-testing.pdf.

Last summer during our "workshop in Albi":http://www.gmea.net/activite/recherche/colloques/jamoma.htm, several developers started a conversation about improvements to our unit testing practices. In particular, we wanted a system that was _more_ automatic and required fewer manual steps to be performed by the programmer.

In the months that followed, we collaborated on a solution that we now call *Build &amp; Test*.

h2(#comparison). Comparison

h3(#the-old-way-using-ruby). The old way: using Ruby

Prior to Build &amp; Test, myself and other C++ developers on Jamoma would follow a multi-step process for unit testing that went something like this:

# "write a @test()@ method":http://api.jamoma.org/chapter_unittesting.html#chapter_unittesting_writingtests
# build the C++ library that contained the test
# re-build the "Ruby language bindings":https://github.com/jamoma/JamomaRuby
# run the Ruby script to call the “test” message for an object
# read the results posted in the Terminal and figure out where your code went wrong

The Terminal output from Ruby would look something like this:

<pre>
Test checkout of first SampleMatrix...
    PASS -- checkOutMatrix returns a valid pointer
    PASS -- numChannels is set properly
    PASS -- userCount reports proper value
    PASS -- bufferPoolStage reports proper value
    
Test second checkout of first SampleMatrix...
    PASS -- checkOutMatrix returns the same pointer
    PASS -- userCount reports proper value after second checkout
    
Test if changing lengthInSamples attribute spawns new SampleMatrix...
    PASS -- checkOutMatrix returns pointer to different SampleMatrix
    PASS -- userCount reports proper value
    
Repeat with numChannels attribute...
    PASS -- checkOutMatrix returns pointer to different SampleMatrix
    PASS -- userCount reports proper value
    
At this point, 3 SampleMatrix objects are checked out via 4 pointers:
        myFirstCheckOut: userCount 2, Active 0, Becoming Idle 1
        myFirstCheckOut2: userCount 2, Active 0, Becoming Idle 1
        mySecondCheckOut: userCount 1, Active 0, Becoming Idle 1
        myThirdCheckOut: userCount 1, Active 1, Becoming Idle 0
    
Testing check in process...
    PASS -- checkInMatrix(myFirstCheckOut) resets pointer to NULL
    PASS -- myFirstCheckOut2 is still a valid pointer
    PASS -- poke/peek sample value still works
    PASS -- checkInMatrix(myFirstCheckOut2) resets pointer to NULL
    PASS -- checkInMatrix(mySecondCheckOut) resets pointer to NULL
    PASS -- checkInMatrix(myThirdCheckOut) resets pointer to NULL
    

        Number of assertions: 16
        Number of failed assertions: 0
</pre>

Alternatively: you could also send the &quot;test&quot; message to an object in the Max. However, this adds more manual steps like building the "Max Implementation":https://github.com/jamoma/JamomaMax, opening Max, instantiating the object, etc, etc...

h3(#issues). Issues

If the goal is to &quot;test automatically&quot;, then frankly the old way didn't achieve it. It's certainly better than no testing at all, but having too many manual steps often lead to missteps by the developer. Personally, I would often lose time because I forgot to rebuild the Ruby language bindings, which results in testing old code without the corrections I was working on. It was also mildly frustrating that I was constantly compiling a library in Xcode, then switching to the Terminal to run my test in Ruby via the command line.

So the questions we started asking in Albi were:

* Can this be more automatic?
* Could we automate the Ruby steps somehow so we don't forget something?
* Or do we need to rely on Ruby to run tests at all?
* Wouldn't it be better if we could stay in one place (the IDE)?

h3(#the-new-way-using-the-ide). The new way: using the IDE

In the months that followed, the Build &amp; Test solution provided some satisfying answers to these questions. Now the steps for testing your code look something like this:

# "write a @test()@ method":http://api.jamoma.org/chapter_unittesting.html#chapter_unittesting_writingtests
# build the C++ library that contained the test
# if a test assertion fails, the IDE will stop its build and point you to a line in code

In Xcode, the error looks something like this:

p=. <%= fancyImage @item, "images/TTBufferXcodeAssertionFail.png", "images/TTBufferXcodeAssertionFail.png", "Xcode says my userCount didn't match expectations", "test-and-build" %>


h3(#benefits). Benefits

The biggest benefit is the ability to receive immediate feedback when something breaks. If a test exists and your changes to the code cause that test to fail, you get feedback from the IDE as soon as you try to build. This makes it much easier to code via "test driven development":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Test-driven_development or "red-green-refactor":http://www.jamesshore.com/Blog/Red-Green-Refactor.html approach. Even if you don't take the extreme path of establishing your tests first, the immediate feedback should encourage our developers to spend more time making unit tests.

h2(#how-it-works). How it works

h3(#design-features). Design features

There were several key design decisions made earlier in the development of Jamoma that made our Build &amp; Test solution relatively easy to implement:

# *All objects derive from a single parent class.* The @TTDataObjectBase@ class contains a template for a "<code>test()</code> method":https://github.com/jamoma/JamomaCore/blob/dev/Foundation/library/includes/TTDataObjectBase.h#L120 and registers "the &quot;test&quot; message":https://github.com/jamoma/JamomaCore/blob/dev/Foundation/library/source/TTDataObjectBase.cpp#L38. Inheritance then ensures that unit testing is built into every Jamoma object by default.

* *Tags are used by each object.* In general, tags allow us to group objects and enable searching based on common features. Tags are typically defined near the head of each CPP file via preprocessor "@#define@ statements":https://github.com/jamoma/JamomaCore/blob/dev/DSP/extensions/FilterLib/source/TTHalfband9.cpp#L13 and our "macros for class definition":https://github.com/jamoma/JamomaCore/blob/master/DSP/library/includes/TTDSP.h#L49 take care of the rest.
* *Tags are searchable at runtime.* Jamoma provides the static method "@GetRegisteredClassNamesForTags@":https://github.com/jamoma/JamomaCore/blob/dev/Foundation/library/includes/TTObject.h#L74, which produces a @TTValue@ array containing the names of all registered classes with a given tag.

h3(#implementation). Implementation

For Build &amp; Test, we first defined a tag that was specific to each library or extension in the Jamoma Core and added it to existing classes. For example: in the DSP library we used "@dspLibrary@":https://github.com/jamoma/JamomaCore/blob/dev/DSP/library/test.cpp#L21, but in the FilterLib extension, we used "@dspFilterLib@":https://github.com/jamoma/JamomaCore/blob/dev/DSP/extensions/FilterLib/test.cpp#L25.

The makefile for each project now looks for a @test.cpp@ file in a "given project":https://github.com/jamoma/JamomaCore/blob/dev/Shared/jamomalib.rb#L1708. If it is present, the build process will compile it and run the included "@main@ function":https://github.com/jamoma/JamomaCore/blob/dev/DSP/library/test.cpp at the end of the build. That @main()@ function essentially breaks down into 2 steps:

# search for objects registered with a specified project tag
# for each object, send it a &quot;test&quot; message

If the @test()@ method has not been overridden for a given object, we get a "harmless message":https://github.com/jamoma/JamomaCore/blob/dev/Foundation/library/includes/TTDataObjectBase.h#L126 suggesting that we should create a test. If it has been overridden, the test method runs.

Whenever an assertion fails, the build will stop and your IDE will highlight the relevant line of code in your test (see image above).

h2(#summary). Summary

The new Jamoma Build &amp; Test system delivers a unit testing solution that is &quot;early, often &amp; automatic&quot;. As soon as you start building your code changes, you are testing. Every time you build, you are testing. If you are building, you are testing!

But the ultimate success of this system will be dependent on our C++ developers integrating Build &amp; Test into their workflow. Here are some things to keep in mind:

h3(#what-our-c-developers-need-to-know). What our C++ developers need to know

* *If you want to get started using Build &amp; Test*, checkout the "“dev” branch of Jamoma Core":https://github.com/jamoma/JamomaCore/tree/dev. Every existing library and extension on this branch is now setup to take advantage of the Build &amp; Test system. The details about when specific commits happened are logged on "Issue #131":https://github.com/jamoma/JamomaCore/issues/131.
* *If an assertion in your test fails*, the project that contains it will not build. You should either solve the problem OR comment out the assertion and log an issue in "our GitHub repository":https://github.com/jamoma/JamomaCore/issues?state=open.
* *If you are creating a new library or extension*, the work is a bit more involved. Since this is unlikely to happen without consulting other developers, I will leave it for another time.

h3(#what-our-c-developers-need-to-do). What our C++ developers need to do

* *If you are adding a class to a project*, make sure it includes the designated tag for that project. This is easily found in the @test.cpp@ file of the relevant directory.
* *If you notice an odd behavior*, create a test that demonstrates the problem and fails each time you build. You can then set out to work on a fix and know when immediately when you have a solution.
* *If you are adding a new class*, design tests at the same time.
* *If you are adding features to a class*, design a test that proves they work.
* And finally, *if you see a class without a test*, why not add one or two or twenty?
