---
title: Jamoma for Max
menu: whatIsJamoma
---

p(lead). As your Max patchers grow in size, it becomes increasingly important that they do not run wild. Jamoma for Max helps structuring and controlling your system so that YOU stay in control.

&nbsp;

p(text-center). <a href="/download/" class="btn btn-success">Download</a> <a href="/max/tutorials/" class="btn btn-info">View Tutorials</a>

&nbsp;


h2(page-header). Modularity <span class="small">With model-view-controller separation</span>

p=. <%= fancyImage @item, "images/models-and-views.png", "images/models-and-views.png", "Model-View-Controller separation", "MVC" %>

Each section of your patch is neatly turned into a model. The interfaces for the models are developed separately, and this gives a new sense of freedom with respect to how interfaces can be designed and used.

You can change the interface without needing to change the model, you can swap between different interfaces depeneding on your needs, and you can have several views open at the same time that all connects to the same model.

&nbsp;

h2(page-header). Rapid prototyping

p=. <%= fancyImage @item, "images/rapid-prototyping.png", "images/rapid-prototyping.png", "Rapid prototyping", "prototyping" %>

Jamoma for Max comes with a rich set of models for processing of data, audio and video. Whether it is for an art installation, audio production, VJ-ing or theater, developing a specific tool is just a matter of opening a blank Max patch and start having fun inserting and connecting models available right out of the box.

&nbsp;

h2(page-header). Presets and cues

p=. <%= fancyImage @item, "images/presets.png", "images/presets.png", "Model presets", "presets" %>

Jamoma makes it easier to control your Max patchers. The patch can be instantiated in a predictable and reliable way. At any moment you can ask your patch how it is currently configured, and use this to build presets and cues for future performances.

Jamoma offers powerful show control for your live performances. Use it to control interactive audio, video, light, MIDI, sensors, robotics, and anything else that Max can be used with.

&nbsp;

h2(page-header). Mapping and interaction

p=. <%= fancyImage @item, "images/mappings.png", "images/mappings.png", "Mappings and preset interpolations", "mapping" %>

How do you want interactions to operate? Mapping between parameters is a breeze, and invites playful experimentation. Advanced mappings with interpolations recreate long missed sound effect processes from the discontinued Hipno plugin suite.

&nbsp;

h2(page-header). Going surround

p=. <%= fancyImage @item, "images/surround.png", "images/surround.png", "Sound spatialisation in Jamoma using AudioGraph and Distance-based amplitude panning.", "surround" %>

Many models are available for spatial audio, and AudioGraph turns your patch cord into an audio snake cable, carrying many channels.

&nbsp;

h2(page-header). Communicate with other applications

p=. <%= fancyImage @item, "images/osc-example-with-touchosc.png", "images/osc-example-with-touchosc.png", "Jamoma and OSC communication", "osc" %>

All model parameters are readily accessibel for OSC communicaiton, making it easy to connect Max and Jamoma with other OSC-compatible applications such as TouchOSC, Pure Data, Reaktor or Isadora. Of course, controlling modules with MIDI devices is also possible using the dedicated conversion and mapping modules.

&nbsp;

h2(page-header). i-score