--- 
title: Download Jamoma
menu: getStarted
---
Please report bugs on the "Jamoma users-list":https://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/jamoma-users, "forum":/forum/ or the "bug-tracker":http://redmine.jamoma.org/projects/modular/issues?set_filter=1&amp;tracker_id=1.

h3. Current version


h4. Mac

* "Version 0.5.7":Jamoma-0.5.7-Mac/<br/>(12 January 2013)<br/>This version requires OSX 10.7 or newer, as well as Max 5.1.9 or newer. This installer is for Max 5.1.9 through Max 6.0.8. If you also use TapTools, be sure to install the latest (beta) version of "TapTools&nbsp;4":http://74objects.com/taptools4/.<br/>
* "Version 0.5.7 Package":Jamoma-0.5.7-Package-Mac/ for 32-bit Max 6.1 and higher<br/>(Updated on 10 April 2013).<br/>Max 6.1 introduce a "new solution for distribution of 3rd party externals as packages":http://cycling74.com/2013/03/11/max-6-feature-packages/. This is a hand-crafted reorganisation of the content of the 0.5.7 installer as a package for the 32-bit version of Max 6.1 and higher. If you want to use this, you first need to run the regular installer ("download here"::Jamoma-0.5.7-Mac/). Afterwards download and unzip this archive. It contains a @Jamoma 0.5.7@ package that will need to be moved to your @Max 6.1/packages@ folder. Additional it contains packages for 3rd party externals that some of the Jamoma modules depends on. Please move these packages to @Max 6.1/packages@ as well.

h4. Windows

* Unfortunately we have no recent Windows installer. If you have experience with compiling for Windows and would like to contribute towards the development of Jamoma, we would very much "appreciate your assistance":/team/index.html#how-to-contribute.


h3. Older versions

h4. Mac

* "Version 0.5.6 beta 7":Jamoma-0.5.6-b7-Mac (24 April 2012), requires OSX 10.6 or newer, as well as Max 5.1.9 or newer.
* "Version 0.5.4":Jamoma-0.5.4-Mac (4 October 2011), requires Max 5.1.9 or newer.
* "Version 0.5.3 beta 3":Jamoma-0.5.3-b3-Mac (18 July 2011), requires Max 5.1.8. This is the last version supporting Mac OS 10.5, intel-only.

h4. Windows

* "Version 0.5.6 beta 1":Jamoma-0.5.6-b1-Windows (9 November 2011) and "3rd party externals":JamomaDependencies-0.5.6-b1, requires Max 5.1.9 or newer. 
* "Version 0.5.3 Beta 1":Jamoma-0.5.3-b1-Windows (11 June 2011), requires Max 5.1.8 or newer.
* "Version 0.5.0":Jamoma-0.5.0-Windows (11 November 2009), requires Max 5.1.4 or newer.



h3. Development version (Jamoma 0.6 alpha)

Jamoma 0.6 will be introducing major changes to how Jamoma Modules are structured in order to ensure true model-view-controller separation. Modules developed using Jamoma 0.5 will need to be updated in order to work with Jamoma 0.6. Alpha versions of Jamoma 0.6 are provided for developers and testers as well as "early adapters".

* "Go to separate page for Jamoma 0.6 alpha downloads":/download/0.6/



h2. Download the Jamoma UserLib

The UserLib is a collection of user-created modules, examples, and content for Jamoma. No guarantees are made regarding the suitability, safety, or quality of the content of the UserLib.	

Want to become a UserLib contributor? <a href="https://raw.github.com/Nilson/JamomaUserLibSupport/master/README">Read this</a>.				

* Version 2011-12-19:
** "Jamoma User Libraries for OSX and Max 5":JamomaUserLib-2011-12-19-Mac-Max5
** "Jamoma User Libraries for OSX and Max 6":JamomaUserLib-2011-12-19-Mac-Max6
** "Jamoma User Libraries for Windows":JamomaUserLib-2011-12-19-Windows
* Version 2011-07-18:
** "Jamoma User Libraries for OSX and Max 5":JamomaUserLib-2011-07-18-Mac-Max5
* Version 2011-02-04:
** "Jamoma User Libraries for OSX and Max 5":JamomaUserLib-2011-02-04-Mac-Max5

<%= render 'support' %>