---
layout: post
title: Workshop and SonData at the upcoming Code Control
h1: Workshop and SonData at the upcoming Code Control
kind: article
menu: blog
created_at: 2013-02-28
location: Bergen, Norway
author: Trond Lossius
categories:
- Code-Control
- SonData
- sonification
- João-Menezes
---

<%= fancyImage @item, "images/sonData1.png", "images/sonData1.png", "SonData" %>
<%= fancyImage @item, "images/sonData2.png", "images/sonData2.png", "SonData" %>

At the upcoming "Code Control":http://code-control.com/ Max meetup in Leicester 22-24th March "João Menezes":http://cargocollective.com/joaomenezes will be presenting the SonData Interactive Data Sonification toolkit as part of the Catalyst Science Fair. In addition he will conduct a workshop on "Automatic generation of parameter data":http://code-control.com/2013/02/25/joao-menezes_get-parametrical/.

h2. SonData

<%= fancyImage @item, "images/sonData3.png", "images/sonData3.png", "SonData" %>
<%= fancyImage @item, "images/sonData4.png", "images/sonData4.png", "SonData" %>

"SonData":http://cargocollective.com/joaomenezes/sondata is an Interactive Data Sonification toolkit, targeted at all practitioners interested in sonifying data. However, it also provides a set of tools that are useful to the academic and scientific Data Sonification community.

SonData provides tools for the interactive sonification of complex and multidimensional datasets. In order to do so, SonData consists of a set of modules for both Parameter Based Sonification (PMSon) and Model-Based Sonification (MBS). 

SonData was developed in Max/MSP integrating the Jamoma framework. Max/MSP is a high level programming language which is easily accessible to a large audience of target-users. In addition, it integrates the Jamoma framework, providing modularity, connectivity, robustness, and rapid prototyping in its application context.

SonData was developed as part of his masters thesis at FEUP, University of Porto.