h1. Jamoma Web site

This is the Git repository containing sources of the Jamoma website visible at www.jamoma.org.

Pushing a change to the "master" branch will trigger the build script which will automatically update the site.

h2. Usage:

In order to modify the website's content, you will need to edit (or add) pages in the content folder, by using the "textile format":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Textile_(markup_language)

h3. Getting started

First of all, one needs to install all necessary ruby gems. In order to do this, type the following commands in the Terminal:
- sudo gem install bundle 
- sudo bundle

h3. Building the Web site locally 

Before pushing changes, please make sure everything is fine by building the Web site locally.
To do so, type the following commands in the Terminal:
- nanoc compile
- nanoc view

Then open your favorite browser and type http://localhost:3000/ in the URL bar.

You should now be able to navigate the full website locally. 

In order to stop the web server (e.g. to see new changes and recompile it), type ctrl-C in the terminal.


h2. Credits:


h5. nanoc:

This web site is developed using "nanoc":http://nanoc.stoneship.org/



h6. nanoc-blog:

The blog section of the web site is based on code from nanoc_blog by vipulnsward:https://github.com/vipulnsward/nanoc-blog



h7. fancyBox

"fancyBox":http://fancyapps.com/fancybox/ is a tool that offers a nice and elegant way to add zooming functionality for images, html content and multi-media on your webpages. It is built on the top of the popular JavaScript framework jQuery and is both easy to implement and a snap to customize:

fancyBox is licensed under a "Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 3.0 license":http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/3.0/. 
You are *free* to use fancyBox for your personal or non-profit website projects. 
You can get the author's permission to use fancyBox for commercial websites by paying a "fee":http://fancyapps.com/store/.

The latest source code is available on "GitHub":https://github.com/fancyapps/fancyBox.


h3. codeship

"codeship":https://www.codeship.io/ is an online service which offers a nice online interface for Continuous Deployment

"!https://www.codeship.io/projects/5e45c3b0-845d-0131-5389-0eb7b1c3930e/status?branch=master!":https://www.codeship.io/projects/15017
