---
title: Jamoma for PureData (Pd)
menu: getStarted
---


p(lead). As your Pd patchers grow in size, it becomes increasingly important that they do not run wild. Jamoma for Pd helps structuring and controlling your system so that YOU stay in control.
&nbsp;

p(text-center). <a href="/pd/download/" class="btn btn-success">Download</a> <a href="/pd/tutorials/" class="btn btn-info">View Tutorials</a>

&nbsp;

h2(page-header). Modularity <span class="small">With model-view-controller separation</span>

Each section of your patch is neatly turned into a model. The interfaces for the models are developed separately, and this gives a new sense of freedom with respect to how they can be designed and used.

You can change the interface without needing to change the model, you can swap between different interfaces depeneding on your needs, and you can have several views open at the same time that all connects to the same model.

&nbsp;

h2(page-header). Presets and cues

Jamoma makes it easier to control your Pd patchers. The patch can be instantiated in a predictable and reliable way. At any moment you can ask your patch how it is currently configured, and use this to build presets and cues for future performances.

Jamoma offers powerful show control for your live performances. Use it to control interactive audio, video, light, MIDI, sensors, robotics, and anything else that Max can be used with.


&nbsp;

h2(page-header). Communicate with other applications

All model parameters are readily accessible for OSC communicaiton, making it easy to connect Pd and Jamoma with other OSC-compatible applications such as TouchOSC, Max, Reaktor or Isadora. Of course, controlling modules with MIDI devices is also possible using the dedicated conversion and mapping models.

&nbsp;

h2(page-header). i-score

<a href="http://i-score.org/" target="_blank">i-score</a> is an intermedia sequencer for flexible scripting of interactive scenarios. i-score communicates with Jamoma for Pd using the <a href="https://github.com/Minuit/minuit" target="_blank">Minuit</a> protocol.

Once the connection between i-score and Jamoma has been set up, i-score instantly knows about all models and parameters in Jamoma, as well as their current state. This can be used to compose a timeline of cues and automations. When played back, i-score conducts the Jamoma system.

The score can include conditional cues and branching for interaction, and enables you to compose and perform rich and detailed multimedia events and processes in time.
