---
layout: post
title: Jamoma 0.5.7 package for Max 6.1
h1: Jamoma 0.5.7 package for Max 6.1
kind: article
menu: blog
created_at: 2013-04-07
location: Bergen, Norway
author: Trond Lossius
categories:
- Max-6.1
- packages
---

p=. <%= fancyImage @item, "images/jamoma-0.5.7-package.png", "images/jamoma-0.5.7-package-thumb.png", "Jamoma 0.5.7 package" %>

*Update 2013-04-10:* I've corrected the name of the "patchers" folders as pointed out by Nicolas Marechal. Additionally I have added a Jamoma-dependencies folder to the archive as well. This folder contains a number of packages of 3rd party externals (ICST ambisonics externals, VBAP, etc.) required by some of the modules, e.g. spatialisation modules.

In follow up to the "previous post":/blog/2013-03-25-jamoma-and-max-packages we have now added a hand-crafted package for Jamoma 0.5.7 to the "download":/download section. If you want to use Jamoma 0.5.7 (the current stable release) with Max 6.1 or newer, please follow these steps to get going:

# Download the regular version of Jamoma 0.5.7, and run the installer.
# Download the package, unzip and copy to the @Max 6.1/packages folder@.
# If you did not have Max 6.0.8 (or an earlier version of Max 6) installed from beforehand, you'll notice that the first astep here has added a new @Max6@ folder to your @Applications@ folder, in addition to the @Max 6.1@ folder that is created when installing Max 6.1 or higher. Having completed the first two steps, you can go ahead and delete this @Max6@ folder.

The reason that you need to run the regular installer first, is that Jamoma 0.5.7 do not only install files in your Max 6 folder, but also installs a number of frameworks and extensions in the hidden @/usr/local@ Unix folder. These additional files are required for Jamoma 0.5.7 to run.

For this reason, if you use Jamoma 0.5.7 for a project, and want to keep all files relating to that project for future use, it will not be sufficient to just keep a copy of the package. Make sure that you also keep a copy of the Jamoma installer, so that you are also able to install these additional "hidden" files.