---
layout: post
title: Moviestar at the Meteor Festival
h1: Moviestar at the Meteor Festival
kind: article
menu: blog
created_at: 2013-11-13
location: Bergen, Norway
author: Trond Lossius
categories:
- project
- Marieke-Verbiesen
- art-installation
---

p=. <%= fancyImage @item, "images/moviestar.jpg", "images/moviestar.jpg", "Moviestar" %>

The interactive installation Moviestar by Marieke Verbiesen & co was presented at the recent "Meteor festival":http://bit-teatergarasjen.no/meteor-2013/meteor-2013/ in Bergen. In the installation Max, Jitter and Jamoma is used for live interactive video processing, making use of chromakeying and blob tracking.

p=. <iframe src="//player.vimeo.com/video/76657431?title=0&amp;byline=0&amp;portrait=0" width="500" height="281" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen></iframe> <p><a href="http://vimeo.com/76657431">Moviestar v2 Work in progress - Premiere METEOR Festival 2013</a> from <a href="http://vimeo.com/marieke">marieke v</a> on <a href="https://vimeo.com">Vimeo</a>.</p>

Moviestar is an interactive installation that moulds old and new media together in order to create a reallife moving filmset.Classic film, animation, robotics, sound and motiontracking are utilised to simulate a moviescene where visitors play the mainrole. They will find themselves on a filmset surrounded by cameras, lights and a greenscreen studio, projected into a world that consists of monsters, UFO´s and other slightly surreal events that are controlled by the visitors movements in front of the camera.

The installation forms a tribute to the young history of Special Effects, that since the existince of film has experienced a fastmoving evolution. Special effect technologies opened up oppertunities explored by filmmakers in order to produce imaginative movies by putting together diffrent filmed scenes; blending real actor recordings with stopmotion animations and prerecorded material. Filmmakers were able to create characters and filmsets using clay, wood and gardenutilities for their imaginative movieplots. Allthough films using these technologies looked far from realistic, they graduately gained acceptance from the public, and changed the way we looked at film forever.

A lot more info on this installation can be found at "the official Moviestar website":http://moviestar.marieke.nu/who.html.

Moviestar was co-produced by "BIT-Teatergarasjen":http://bit-teatergarasjen.no/ and "BEK":http://www.bek.no, and supported by the Norwegian Art Council, Nordic Film Institute and The Municipality of Bergen.