---
layout: post
title: Jamoma 0.5 is out and ready for download!
kind: article
menu: blog
created_at: 2009-11-13
location: Montreal, Canada
author: Nils Peters
h1: Jamoma 0.5 is out and ready for download!
categories:
- download
- installer
- Jamoma-0.5
- Max-5
---
"http://www.jamoma.org":http://www.jamoma.org

Jamoma is an open-source project for structured programming in Max/MSP/Jitter and is based on modular principles that allow the reuse of functionalities where all parameters remain customizable to specific needs.

Jamoma is in development for more than five years and is used for teaching and research within science and the arts. It has provided a performance framework for composition, audio/visual performances, theater and installation gallery settings. It has been also used for scientific research in the fields of psychoacoustics, music perception and cognition, machine learning, human computer interaction and medical research.

Features include:

* A large and peer-reviewed library of modules for audio and video processing, sensor integration, cue management, mapping, and exchange of data with other environments
* Extensive set of abstractions that facilitates everyday work with Max/MSP
* Specialized sets of modules for work on spatial sound rendering, including support for advanced spatialization techniques such as Ambisonics, DBAP, ViMiC and VBAP
* Modules for work on music-related movement analysis
* Powerful underlying control structures that handle communication across modules
* Strong emphasis on interoperability
* Native OSC support, thus making it easy to access and manipulate processes via external devices and interfaces
* Comprehensive documentation through maxhelp-files, reference pages and growing number of online tutorials
* Easily extendable and customizable

Jamoma 0.5 was a major effort. Originally it was envisioned as a port from Max 4 to Max 5. However, we did a lot more than that, and significantly overhauled major portions of Jamoma to dramatically improve performance, stability (particularly on Windows), and ease of use. We have also improved the documentation, distribution, and organization of Jamoma.

Here are some resources to get started with Jamoma 0.5:

* "Free Download":/download/
* "Jamoma 0.5 Tutorials":http://groupware.bek.no/groups/jamoma/wiki/c05cb/Documentation_and_tutorials.html
* "Mailing lists and forums for users and developers":/forum/
* "Papers on research concerning or related to Jamoma":/publications/

Requirements: Jamoma 0.5 requires Max 5.0.8, and works on OSX 10.4 or later (Intel) and Windows XP or later

Jamoma is licensed as GNU LGPL. Jamoma is an open source development initiative with more than 20 contributors. 

Development is supported by BEK - Bergen Center for Electronic Arts, CIRMMT - the Centre for Interdisciplinary Research in Music Media and Technology, McGill University, Electrotap, GMEA - Centre National de Creation Musicale d'Albi-Tarn and University of Oslo with additional financial support, a wide range of institutions and funding bodies. Further details can be found "here":/support/.


