---
layout: post
title: New Mac and PC release
kind: article
created_at: 2011-06-11
location: Albi, France
author: Julien Rabin
h1: New Mac and PC release
categories:
- installer
- download
- Mac
- Windows
- Jamoma-0.5.3
---

h2. New beta release : Jamoma Modular 0.5.3b is out

A new version of Jamoma was just "uploaded":http://jamoma.org/download.html. Alongside with the usual optimizations, bug fixes and all, Jamoma 0.5.3 brings some great news: for the "first time in a year":/groups/jamoma/weblog/aa50a/Jamoma_Modular_051_RC8_available_to_download.html, Jamoma installer is available *both* on Mac and Windows!

If you did "follow":http://twitter.com/#!/jamomadev the recent activities on the "forum":http://jamoma-forums-mailing-lists.3076123.n2.nabble.com/the-state-of-the-windows-build-project-tp6432453p6432453.html or on "Github":https://github.com/jamoma/Jamoma/commit/835c00061e4661bb022591ec5a62502b1403b487, something has certainly not escaped of your attention: a lot of work has been put on the Windows version of Jamoma. Indeed, Adrian Gierakowski "that we mentioned here before":/groups/jamoma/weblog/31d47/Spotlight_new_modules_coming_to_UserLib.html spent a lot of time working on the Windows versions of the frameworks and externals and fixing the installer amongst other things. Without a doubt, Adrian deserve a huge “thank you” for all the work he is doing!

No matter how nice this news is, just like with any beta version, this one comes with a grain of salt. At the time of this writing, the following externals are known to crash under Windows:

* jcom.fft≈ 
* jcom.dac≈ 
* jcom.adc≈ 
* jcom.split≈ 
* jcom.graphics

Also worth noting that jcom.net.receive and jcom.net.send are currently broken.

It may take some time before these problems are fixed but we hope it will not last for long. If you want to give a hand at working on this, you are more than welcome to join the Jamoma community of developers.

In any case, be sure to head over the "download":http://jamoma.org/download page and grab the installer:

* For Mac: Jamoma-0.5.3-b2.dmg 
* For Windows: Jamoma-0.5.3-b1.zip
