---
layout: post
title:  Workshop on Sound Spatialisation in Jamoma
kind: article
menu: blog
created_at: 2010-03-21
location: Bergen, Norway
author: Trond Lossius
h1: Workshop on Sound Spatialisation in Jamoma
categories:
- workshop
- spatialisation
---



Workshop on Sound Spatialization in Jamoma
Wednesday, March 31 at the Matrabox
Concordia University, Montreal, CA
1515 Sainte-Catherine West, room EV 4.502

12.15-1pm Nils Peters presents an overview of spatialization techniques

1-1.30pm Navid Navab discusses control issues and tools
2-6.30pm workshop on jamoma and spatialization

Jamoma is an open-source project for structured programming in MaxMSP and Jitter (www.jamoma.org).

Jamoma is based on modular principles that allow the reuse of functionalities whereas all parameters remain customizable to specific artistic needs. We will install jamoma during the workshop. Participants are asked to bring a laptop (mac preferred) with Max5 installed and audio files for experimentation. If interested, please send a short description of what you wish to do in the workshop to nils.peters@mcgill.ca‎

This event is free and open to the public.

Nils Peters is a PhD researcher in Music Technology at McGill University and affiliated with the Centre for Interdisciplinary Research in Music Media and Technology (CIRMMT). His work focuses on the perception and modeling of spatialized sounds. He studied electrical and audio engineering at the University for Music and Dramatic Arts and the University of Technology (Graz, Austria). He has worked as an audio engineer in the fields of recording, post-production and live electronics in Germany, Austria, France, and Canada. He is also a co-developer of Jamoma, an open-source project that facilitates art-based research and performance practice within Cycling'74's MaxMSP.
