*First posted 04/04/2006 12:52:27.*\

This is an excerpt from an email by Trond on the Jamoma dev list a month
or two ago. I keep coming back to it as I think it summarizes the
current state of Jamoma quite well...

In general conserning the use of jamoma, I believe that others will be
able to use it at one or more of these three levels:

​1) Adopting the recommendation but not necessarily the implementation.
This could be the case e.g. if the integra project decides on using the
recommendation, but leaving it free if technical solutions are developed
in MaxMSP, Pd, SuperCollider, Csound or other languages (or if they
decide to create their own implementation).

​2) Adopting the recommendation and the implementation, but not
necessarily the modules.This could be the case for artists that do not
want to use standard modules or the kind of modules Jamoma offers, but
still wants to adopt their own patches to the structure so that they can
benefit from the parameter handling etc.

​3) Users that make use of the modules.

What modules are included only really matter for the last group. For the
rest they might function as examples/tutorials but nothing more. I still
believe it is useful to develop a potential much larger number of
modules than is currently the case. me and Tim decided to keep the
number of modules down for a while, as we were continuously changing and
improving on the core of Jamoma, so that modules had to be altered all
the time.

I believe that we are now getting closer to a fixed structure, so that
future changes can be done without having to alter the way modules are
created again and again. There are two potential changes I envisage that
might influence current modules so that they have to be updated:

- implementation of a component that can be used to auto-document output
from the modules. Some modules, like the motiontracker module you have
commited, return messages that aare not already defined as messages or
parameters. These are currently not being documented in the html. It's
on the todo-list to change this, and I have some ideas about how to go
along, but it's still to be done.

- reviewing and possibly reconsider if parameter changes and updates to
the modules are also to be returned from the left outlet. This is in
many ways a leftover from Jade that we might want to think about once
more at some stage.

Apart from that I believe that as we start introducing new modules, we
shouldn't be to whimsical about it. It is better to concentrate on some
tasks, so that there's a certain consistency and logic in what modules
are included. We've discussed this quite a bit in the past, and based on
that I believe that further development for the next few should happen
along these axes:

Some core functions: a vst wrapper, a matrix, a file player, a synth
module that can function as a template for other synth modules, etc.
Common effects: chorus, delay, etc. Ambisonics modules. Gesture patches.

IMO one of the strengths of the development so far of Jamoma is that
development has not only happened according to some abstract idea about
what might be useful, but it has been driven by real life artistic and
research needs, and put to test continuously along the way in a variety
of situations.
