*First posted on 06/10/2006 02:10:28*\

An impromptu OSC developers' meeting was held on June 8 2006 at NIME.
Matt Wright has put a summary online
[here](http://www.opensoundcontrol.org/group_book/developers/nime06meeting).
Quite a few of the topics discussed seem relevant to current discussions
and consideration within the development of Jamoma, e.g. the discussion
of [standardized address spaces and
schemas](http://www.opensoundcontrol.org/schemas). The possiblility of
forming working groups to address various topics was also discussed.

Alexander might have participated at the meeting, he is at NIME, so
there might be more details from him in the future?
