---
layout: post
title: Jamoma 0.3.2
kind: article
created_at: 2006-07-29
location: Bergen, Norway
author: Trond Lossius
h1: Jamoma 0.3.2
categories:
- installer
- download
- jamoma 0.3.2
---
*First posted on 07/29/2006 04:04:15.*

Version 0.3.2 (build 829) is now available for download. Release notes follow...

Core/Hub/Gui:

* Added new message /ui/refresh that will work with all modules: If display update has been frozen, this message will update displayed values. It do not cause any output, change of parameters, etc. It is simply a message to bring the displayed values back in sync with the real values used by the module.
* Added new message that will be understood by all modules: /documentaion/help. This message opens the help patch for the module.
* New system for communication between jmod.parameter and jmod.hub which uses dedicated send-receive links to vastly improve efficiency.
* global send and receive uses dedicate connections for improved efficiency
* Various name changes in the parameters in standard components (especially the gui component) to reflect a more consistent and structured namespace
* the pop-up menu in the module toolbar display all messages in alphabetic order

Externals:

* new jmod.dispatcher, jmod.param, jmod.mess, jmod.ret externs are preliminary prototype for future replacement of core components
* preliminary verson of jmod.mkdir for creating directories: code donated by Bill Orcutt from the mkdir external (thanks Bill!)

Modules:

* new vbap module
* Fixed bugs in the jmod.noisegate~ modules introduced when jmod.return was implemented.
* new control module that can be used for testing CPU efficiency in parameter handling (intended for testing/development only)
* Fixed bug in jmod.crossfade.mod reported by Guy Levesque at the user list with float number box displaying mix position not being properly updated when the module is receiving /crossfade messages from remote or in left inlet.

Components:

* new lcd-based widget: slider with text display on top of it (may be replaced by jsui in the future)

Documentation:

* misc updates to help patches, html docs, and the overview patch

