---
layout: post
title:  Moviestar at Melkweg Mediaroom Amsterdam
kind: article
menu: blog
created_at: 2010-04-03
location: Bergen, Norway
author: Trond Lossius
h1: Moviestar at Melkweg Mediaroom Amsterdam
categories:
- art-installation
- Marieke-Verbiesen
- Neeltje-Sprengers
---

"Moviestar":http://moviestar.marieke.nu/ is an interactive installation by Marieke Verbiesen & Neeltje Sprengers. The installation moulds old and new media together in order to create a reallife moving filmset. Classic 16mm film, animation, robotics, sound and motiontracking are used to simulate a real life filmset where visitors play the mainrole.

p=. <iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/8193884" width="500" height="281" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen></iframe>

The visitor can see his or herself on a large screen as an actor in a movie surrounded by monsters, UFO´s and other surrealistic events, which they controll realtime themselves.

The installation forms a tribute to the young history of Special Eﬀects, that through the years has evolved in high tempo. The ﬁrst use of special eﬀects suddenly opened up oppertunities for ﬁlmmakes with a low budget to realise their fantasies and create movies by putting together diﬀerent ﬁlmed scenes, and blend animation with real actor recordings.

Like the brothers Sid & Marty Kroft, who started their ﬁlmstudio from their garage in the late 1970´s, where they used clay, wood and gardenutilities to create ﬁlmsets for their series “Land of the Lost”. In this series a family travels through a timewarp loophole and gets stuck in a strange world where history and future times meet. While getting chased by dinosaurs and haunted by aliens they try to ﬁnd their way back to the world they came from while being in an enegmatic zone where time and location are unknown, they soon realise they can ﬁnd their way back by discovering the meaning between past, present and future.

In “Moviestar” visitors get a look in front and behind the scenes in a strange world in which they play a role, and control events themselves. Using several old and new techniques to create this reality.
