--- 
title: Jamoma Modular
menu: whatIsJamoma
---

Develop and use patches in the Max environment



<div class="modularGreatStuff">

h2. Patch-in-a-box

<div class="imageInlineLeft">
	<%= fancyImage @item, "images/patchinabox.png", "images/patchinabox_thumb.png", "Jamoma overview", "overview" %>
</div>

Jamoma Modular comes with a growing number of modules dedicated to data, audio or video processing. Whether it is for an Art installation, audio production, VJing or theater, developing a specific tool is just a matter of opening a blank Max patch and start having fun inserting and connecting modules available right out of the box.

</div>	<!-- class="modularGreatStuff" -->



<div class="modularGreatStuff">

h2. OSC communication

<div class="imageInlineRight">
	<%= fancyImage @item, "images/oscnetwork.png", "images/oscnetwork_thumb.png", "OSC network", "osc_network" %>
</div>

Communication within and between Jamoma modules is based on the OSC protocol. As such, it also offers the possibility to communicate with other OSC-compatible softwares such as Pure Data, Reaktor, Isadora, EyesWeb or the Virage sequencer to name a few. Of course, controlling modules with Midi devices is also possible using the dedicated conversion and mapping modules.

</div>	<!-- class="modularGreatStuff" -->



<div class="modularGreatStuff">

h2. Made for performance

<div class="imageInlineLeft">
	<%= fancyImage @item, "images/cuescript.png", "images/cuescript_thumb.png", "Performance ready", "cuescript" %>
</div>

Together with its development, Jamoma Modular has been used in various arts projects and comes with modules optimized for performance.  Store each module’s parameter value or any message needed in presets file and recall cues using the different transition options.

</div>	<!-- class="modularGreatStuff" -->



<div class="modularGreatStuff">

h2. Extensive component library

<div class="imageInlineRight">
	<%= fancyImage @item, "images/components.png", "images/components_thumb.png", "Jamoma components", "components" %>
</div>

p. Whether you want to develop your own module or interacting with pre-existing ones, Jamoma offers an extensive collection of components implemented as Max externals, abstractions or Javascript code. Be it processing audio signals, communication between various modules or mapping data, these will be useful to deal with simple repetitive tasks as well as more complex situations.

</div>	<!-- class="modularGreatStuff" -->



<div class="modularGreatStuff">

h2. Standardized GUI

<div class="imageInlineLeft">
	<%= fancyImage @item, "images/custogui.png", "images/custogui_thumb.png", "Customizable GUI", "custom-gui" %>
</div>
	
Built-in modules are based on a generic GUI implemented as an external. This brings to your modules a convenient and consistent access to presets management, help patch and reference page, as well as basic parameters control such as gain, bypass or preview by the mean of optional widgets. In addition, colour schemes are fully customizable using built-in objects’ colour themes or Max 5 standard object inspector.

</div>	<!-- class="modularGreatStuff" -->

h2. Time is precious

<div class="modularGreatStuff">
	
<div class="imageInlineRight">	
	<%= fancyImage @item, "images/timesavers.png", "images/timesavers_thumb.png", "Time savers", "time-savers" %>
</div>
	
We know you would spend your time making art and music rather than patching, debugging and documenting your work. Thus, Jamoma Modular offers a number of patch templates, shortcuts and tools to create and defines parameters that will come handy during the whole development process. Finally, Jamoma framework embed a full system to automagically create consistent module documentation.

</div>	<!-- class="modularGreatStuff" -->

<div class="modularGreatStuff">
	
<div class="imageInlineLeft">
	<%= fancyImage @item, "images/clippings.png", "images/clippings_thumb.png", "Time savers", "time-savers" %>
</div>

Using Max 5's file browser features, Jamoma include some clippings for all of its modules. Just drag a patch from the file browser or use Max contextual menu to drop a module and start patching.

</div>	<!-- class="modularGreatStuff" -->



<div class="modularGreatStuff">

h2. Still want more?

<div class="imageInlineRight">
	<%= fancyImage @item, "images/more.png", "images/more_thumb.png", "Community", "community" %>
</div>

Can not find the module you need? Stuck in development of your patch? Do not forget that Jamoma is community-driven. A number of users are already sharing their creations ready to be downloaded, advices and experiences. Join them on the user forum and help us continuously improving Jamoma based on your experience.

</div>	<!-- class="modularGreatStuff" -->